Moving away from traditional backlogs and a more efficient approach to project prioritization. Backlog, characterized by the accumulation of tasks and ideas that are often unprocessed, is considered time-consuming. Instead a calculated betting system  before each six-week period is recommended. At these betting events, stakeholders only consider recently drafted project applications, which ensures that the considered alternatives are well articulated and low-risk. This approach results in shorter and more productive meetings. It also eliminates the need to track or hold ideas that do not fall for the current cycle. Maintaining decentralized pitch, bug, and request lists, sharing priority responsibilities and promoting cross-pollination of ideas between departments is of outmost importance. 

Emphasis is placed on introducing six-week cycles as a standardized project duration, which simplifies project planning and maintains a sense of urgency. Disadvantages of shorter two-week cycles and emphasizes the importance of a two-week cooling off period after each six-week cycle, during which developers and designers can work on various tasks, including debugging and creative exploration. Project teams are set up in fixed configurations and may devote an entire cycle to one major project or work on several smaller projects. A forecast board meeting brings together top-level stakeholders to decide on  projects for the next cycle, consider new pitches or revive old ones without having to deal with the backlog. Betting is characterized by clear wins, liabilities and losses, and teams have uninterrupted time during the cycle. Error handling is approached strategically, with seriousness and prioritizing focus. The basic principle is to keep a clean slate in each cycle, contribute only one round at a time, and be open to adapting based on results, ensuring that teams can respond effectively to unexpected challenges.

For existing products, a standard Shape Up process is applied, which includes design, contribution and construction to deliver at the end of  the cycle. New product development has three distinct phases: research and development mode, production mode and refinement mode. The RandD space embraces uncertainty, with a focus on research and learning through construction, and contributions to the core of a new product idea. The production mode following successful RandD cycles includes clear design, delegated teams and delivery as a priority. Cleanup mode precedes product release and prioritizes the resolution of overlooked issues. Contributions are made on a cyclical basis. Questions asked during the bidding process, including assessing the importance of the problem, desirability of the project, attractiveness of the solution, timing and team availability
